In a greenhouse nestled in a valley near
Half Moon Bay, California farmer Ken
Armstrong is tending to his herd. Some
3,000 fish who are key members of a
complex ecosystem, that also includes
some helpful bacteria, and these floating
leafy greens. There's not a speck of soil
to be seen here at Ouroboros Farms where,
Armstrong and his colleagues are growing produce with an agricultural system
called Aquaponics. The fish are the
integral part of the system, they provide
the nutrients for all, for the system. So
we feed our fish and organic fish feed,
and this is becomes the nutrient base
for all of our plants. So the the food
that the fish eat becomes usable
nitrogen by the plants, and so the fish
are actually the engine, the growth, this
is where all the magic happens. In other
words, the fish waste becomes food for
the plants, and the plants in turn clean
the water for the fish. It's a delicately
balanced system that requires some basic
science to master. Armstrong isn't the
first farmer to try aquaponics, it's a
method that's been around for a really
long time. It's believed the Aztecs and
ancient cultures and parts of Asia
fertilize their crops with wild fish.
Today aquaponics is being used in a
number of countries from Myanmar, to
Peru, to Germany, even on rooftops in Gaza.
In the U.S. a small number of backyard
hobbyists have been tinkering with the
system for years, but until recently it
hasn't been tried on a large scale,
commercial basis. Now, the team at
Ouroboros Farms and a handful of other
operations around the country are giving
it a go. Plants here grow about 1/3
faster than if they were grown in soil.
Faster plant growth is one of the
benefits of aquaponics, but the other big
one is water usage, a critical issue in
drought stricken California, where a
large percentage of the state's
developed water goes to agriculture.
Some in the aquaponics industry claim
their systems use about 90% less water
than traditional soil farming. There's
almost no evaporation in these systems,
the only usage of water comes through
transpiration, what the plants actually
utilize. Comparing to soil agriculture
plants can only take up water through
the tips of their roots, so you need to
soak the top layer of soil in order for
the water to get down to where the plant
can actually use it. So that that top
layer of topsoil, all that water just
evaporates. The 60,000 gallons of water
at Ouroboros have been circulating for a
year,
weekly top offs are needed, but the
overall water savings for each plant
grown is significant. For example,
Armstrong says a mature head of lettuce
and his operation, uses about a gallon of
water over the six week growth cycle, far
less than most lettuces grown in soil. That is amazing. But for all its benefits,
Aquaponics does have its limitations. It
doesn't make sense economically to grow
certain staple foods like wheat and corn
given the infrastructure of the system.